+++
title = "Beginning"
date = 2026-07-18
+++

This is the 4th day I've started animating. I want to achieve some confidence in this craft in 12 weeks. At the moment it is kind of the 10th time I'm "starting". Previous times I couldn't discipline myself to keep going. I hope this time I will do it. I developed some discipline before, so now it should be easier.

First day I watched a couple of tutorials, and downloaded H22. Initially I wanted to animate in grease pencil, but I really suck at drawing. So I decided to switch to 3d animation and maybe do some drawing animation later. Kind of increase difficulty.

Second day I animated 2 versions of a bouncing ball. It was really hard and boring. Didn't keep up with curves and layers. Reported a couple of bugs. Got a ball to record some references.

Third day I recorded several videos of a bouncing ball and vibe coded a tool which draws the trail of a moving object on video. It is my usual way of procrastinating. Surprisingly, on the 3rd day it was very easy and intuitive to animate using curves. I made one animation of a bouncing ball from my reference and made a good-looking render. Tried to deploy the blog to neocities, but it doesn't allow hosting mp4 and webm.

Fourth day I took another reference and animated a bouncing ball with squash and stretch and rotation. Found a fun formula to make believable rotation:

```
(distance/radius) x (180/pi)
```

### PS

I've always wanted to be an animator or somehow related. Probably it's from my childhood impression from anime and stuff, like this very physical feeling of "wow" when you see the movement of your drawing or 3d model.

Anyway, right now I'm totally motivated to keep moving in this direction.

Honestly, maybe I picked the wrong career path, so I ended up doing some animation using computer code.
I've already lost any interest in software development (it can't have any meaning for me).

So, let's see what is ahead:)
